And this video will learn about the treaty question, so first of all, I will compare what is linear
recursion and prediction.
Let us see see a linear regression function that is recursive function.
If it is calling itself only one time, you can see that the function is calling itself only one time,
then it is a linear regression.
So already we have seen in the previous video that the functions which are calling just one time and
we have seen recursion and recursion, but in this example it is having something to process before
the call as well as after the call.
So it is just a recursive function.
We cannot name it as head or tail recursion.
And this code is not a C or C++ code.
I have just written a pseudo code here, so it's not a complete function like an integer.
Everything is not there.
So don't try to read it as a C language code, just so I'm sure you structure than here prediction.
So what is prediction if a function that is recursive function is calling itself more than one time.
So here you can see it is calling itself first time and here it is calling itself second time.
So all of a recursive function is calling itself more than one time.
Then it has three recursion.
So in my example, I have shown it as two times.
So it may be more than two times also, so that we call it a straight recursion.
So here I have one example of three recursion, which is similar to the previous examples, only the
difference that is calling itself more than one time.
So I will trace this one and show you how it will work and what will be the output.
And also I will show you how the stack is created in this one.
Let us look at the tracing of dysfunction.
The function is caused by passing value.
Three, I have taken a piece of stack.
I'm not taking complete memory and data memory.
Just I'm showing you how it is used by this recursive function, which is a three recursion letter.
Strix Foster scarred by passing function with value three.
So the first call as one of three for this function activation, Vegard is created and the value of
N will be three.
So this is the first record created and then one of those steps it has to perform first, print the
value, then make two columns so it will bring the value, then it will make two columns.
Let us print the value.
So it will print the value three and make first a function call fun four and a minus one.
That is two and second call.
It has to mean that it will be doing once this call has finished.
So let us first finish first column so far, this call and again activation record is created where
the value of end will be to two.
Now for this call, let us see what happens.
And that is two is greater than zero.
Yes, two is greater than zero print and then make two calls.
So let us do it.
But two and make one call that and minus one, that is, and minus one to two, minus one one, then
second call it will make after finishing this one.
So so far we have two value sprinters.
So I'll also be writing the output here.
So the output of the function so far is three and two.
Now, let us continue with this call.
This call again, activation record is created and the value of end will be one not for the value of
an as one.
One is greater than zero.
Yes, it is greater than zero.
Then it will perform three steps, first one, then make two calls.
So first it will bring the value that is one, then it will make first call that reduced the value of
N.
So this is one.
So it will be zero and Schenkkan it will make afterwards.
So for this call again, a fresh call is made from here.
So a new activation.
The code is created where the value of end will be zero.
Now, this time fan of zero, this is zero zero greater than zero, no, so it will not end in sight
and it will not perform these steps.
So the function call terminates, not a function calls terminates.
This activation record is deleted from the stack.
So before the election, if you count one, two, three, four, four, Activision recalls how many
calls one, two, three, four, four calls for Activision records out there.
So this was deleted.
Not once it is deleted, it will go back to the previous call.
It means this has finished.
It will go back to the previous call in previous call for performing three steps.
First was completed.
Second is also complicated.
The slow third one to actually perform.
So it will make a call here four and the minus one next call and minus one.
So N minus one, one minus one is again zero.
So again, it will make a call with value of zero.
So again, the activation record is created.
Actually this was gone.
So new activation, the code is again created.
So I have it is this one.
So let us assume again it is created here.
So, again, the fate of the Steiger's for.
Next, four four four zero, this is zero zero is not greater than zero, so it's not going to enter
inside function.
And so this activation, the card is deleted and this function terminates.
So now you can see that for fun of one, all three steps are completed printing, calling itself two
times with reduced value of and that is one a sprinter and zero zero as call.
And they have finished and then the output.
We also have one
now this call is completed.
All three steps are over.
So it will go back to the previous call.
So go back to the previous comments of this call has finished this activation.
The code is deleted.
So right now there are only two activation records, the cards in the stack.
One is for value of another three and value of those two.
Note is back on this call where and there's two and in that out of three steps, it has already performed
first printing of two and then the next.
Again, it has to make a call that is at minus one.
So now it will make a call for fun of and minus one.
So again, fun of and minus one.
That is two.
Minus one.
That is one.
Now again, a fresh call.
So new activation record is creating.
Now, for this, it is one, so it will bring to one now all the things that happens will be similar
to this one.
So it means it will print one and then it will call itself for.
No, I'm not right.
Complete name fun.
I'm just using F because of lack of space, F of zero.
So this Activision record is created again that this ends.
So this is deleted.
Then goes back again.
Call for zero.
So again, inactivation record is created for zero and this ends and this is deleted.
Now control goes back to this.
This is finished, goes back to this.
All three steps are finished, then goes back to one of three.
In this, it has to perform one more step.
That is one of this was two.
So this is also two.
So three minus one, three minus one.
So again, two calls are made.
So already this portion, we have seen it completely.
Same thing happens here also.
He also seemed happens now this I have taken enough space for explaining this one, now this, I have
to write it in small size, but it will happen as it is what has happened here.
So let me finish it quickly.
So the first thing happened is value to spend it, to spend it.
And here activation record has created.
Then call for the of one new activation record for this was gone.
So one is created then for this value, one is printed value one is printed, then called for fun of
Siedel and the sense activation of the card one more is created with value zero and this ends.
And again, a call for fan of zero again and zero.
And this also ends.
This also goes back here fond of one for this one is printed.
So output is one.
Then Khilafah fan of zero call for phone of zero, right?
So, again, two more activation records than double to finish the finish.
And finally, also finish up.
This is the output that we get.
So I have simultaneously shown you how the activation record works.
So you can see that maximum size of the stack was how much?
One, two, three, four.
Maximum was four.
And total, how many activation of records are created?
And many calls out there, like, I did not draw all just I have given the idea I did not draw each
and every call here.
So if I count them one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13,
14, 15.
So total 15 calls are there.
So 15 times activation records are created and deleted.
Nine will remove the stack and redraw this tree once again.
And we will analyze more on the tree.
I have read on the tree once again.
Let us analyze the tree so by which we can analyze the working of this recursive function.
So here is the tree.
Now, first of all, let me label the calls in which order they are.
Karda see the force function call as this one one, then second call.
This will be done once this has finished.
It has to finish.
So I know that there are three things.
Again, the second call printing is done.
Then third called.
Then this one will be done once this has finished.
So another sprinting, then this gone forward, gone.
Now this is fun with the value zero, this will terminate.
Then it will go to Discon.
So this is fifth one, fifth call.
Then as this has finished, it will go back and then it will make this call.
So this is sixth con then under this seven and eight.
Now these are also finish.
So under this, if you see all the calls are completed now, it will go to this one.
So this is the ninth.
So that is the ninth call, ninth activation.
The code to be created in the stack now, Heidi, is how much?
One, two.
So only two will be there in the stack.
But the count, if you take this, the ninth one.
So there's a ninth call, the end of the sprinting is done and this call is made.
So this is the tenth call and then printing is done and this is mid level call.
And this will finish now because value of this is zero, then this call to call.
So this is also finished because the value of zero.
So this will also complete.
All three steps are completed.
And this one, the world can then go back for this one right side, 13th gone, then 14 call and 15.
So that's what all of you have counted them.
So total 15 calls are made in this particular function when we pass the value as a three.
So I have shown you the order in which the calls are made.
This is very important for you to visualize or trace how these type of functions work, which are calling
themselves more than one time.
Now we will analyze the time, complexity.
So time complexity depends on the number of calls.
Yes.
In each call it is printing except in the calls where the value is zero.
So otherwise it is remaining almost for every call that.
Now let us see how many calls are made.
If the value is three so far and how many calls will be made with that.
We can decide the time complexity of this one.
So let us analyze this one.
So if I count the number of calls level twice then and this level, just one call is made.
And in this level, if I see two calls are made to and in this level, one, two, three, four calls
are made for.
And this level, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, eight calls are made.
So it means when they have passed the value as a three, then in the first level, one call, next level
to call, next level for the next eight, four, three, there are four levels.
And if the value of PN that I am passing here, this value n if it is a four then there will be five
levels.
It means the three will be more bigger than this one and how many calls it may be having.
So let us analyze this one.
So for any value, often how many calls it will be.
So let us sum up all this so I will take the sum of all those one plus two plus four plus eight.
This is total 15.
Yes, we know.
Discount all of them.
That is 15.
Or you add all these, you get 15.
So this is nothing but dupa zero plus two.
Bar one plus two.
Bovver two plus two, three.
So this is nothing but some of the terms of that, the summation of terms of cities, that is CBDs.
That is some of geometric progression.
Tome's what is all the adjectives and all.
We will learn some other time, but right now I'll just ride on the formula.
So this will be nothing but two power.
Hairston was three.
So this is three plus one minus one.
So it means if I have dupa zero plus two, power one plus two, power two goes on two.
If this is then then this will go tail to power and then how much that is.
This is dupa and plus one.
Minus one.
So that many calls it will make.
So what is that equal do.
So this is Order of Tuborg and.
So total dupa and calls are made.
So if I substitute the value of three here, so two or three plus one for to perform minus one, that
is sixteen, minus one is 15.
So for any value of N, the number of calls will be outdraw dupa.
And so that's all we have seen.
What is truly recursion.
And we have taken one example and we have seen how the treating tree is generated and how the calls
are made, how the stock is used and what is the time complexity.
So for this example function, it was too.
And so it depends on the function, what time complexity may be getting.
It's not that every tree recursion will have to Boran for this function is too boring.
So the time is.
Order of dupa and then what is the space, what is the space complexity?
So it depends on what is the maximum height of the stack, because total activity of the course depends
on a number of calls, but how much space it was occupying inside the stack.
So you have observed that same space was reduced inside the stack.
One activation on the court was going in the same place, another activation record was created.
So we don't require much space, just like Boran, but it required the space equal to the height of
a tree that we got here.
So one, two, three, four.
If it is three, four is the space.
So if it is an endless fun little bit of space or this order of any space complexities of and so maximum
stack size that we need, and that will be sufficient.
So that's all about prediction.